>> Wooduff: A CITY WIPED OUT,
UNTOLD NUMBERS DEAD, SURVIVORS
DESPERATE FOR AID, BUT THAT
AID'S BEEN SLOW TO COME.
THE SCALE OF DEVASTATION IN THE
TYPHOON-RAVAGED CENTRAL
PHILIPPINES IS ONLY NOW BECOMING
CLEARER.
GOOD EVENING I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ALSO AHEAD, IRAN AGREED TODAY ON
A  U.N. ROAD MAP THAT WOULD
ALLOW FOR THE INSPECTION OF KEY
NUCLEAR SITES.
BUT THERE IS NOT YET A BROADER
AGREEMENT ON HOW TO FREEZE
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGM. RAMARGARET
WARNER REPORTS.
>> Wooduff: AND FROM SAN
FRANCISCO THIS VETERANS DAY, THE
STORY OF A COLLEGE PROGRAM-- ONE
OF ONLY A HANDFUL NATIONWIDE--
HELPING SOLDIERS OVERCOME THE
SCARS OF WAR.
>> I DON'T CARE IF YOU'VE GOT
1,300 VETS LIKE WE DO, OR 30
VETS, EVERY PLACE SHOULD HAVE
SOMETHING LIKE THIS TO TURN TO.
>> Wooduff: THOSE ARE JUST
SOME OF THE STORIES WE'RE
COVERING ON TONIGHT'S "PBS
NEWSHOUR."
>> Ifill: THE PRESIDENT OF THE
PHILIPPINES DECLARED A STATE OF
EMERGENCY TODAY, IN THE WAKE OF
TYPHOON HAIYAN.
VAST STRETCHES OF THE CENTRAL
PART OF THE COUNTRY LAY IN
RUINS, ESPECIALLY THE CITY OF
TACLOBAN, WHERE OFFICIALS WARNED
THERE COULD BE THOUSANDS DEAD.
FOR NOW, THE CONFIRMED DEATH
TOLL STANDS AT 942.
WE BEGIN WITH A REPORT FROM
ANGUS WALKER OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, IN TACLOBAN.
YOU MAY FIND SOME OF THE IMAGES
DISTURBING.
>> Reporter: TACLOBAN CITY.
SURVIVORS CALL IT GROUND ZERO.
THE OLD COAST ROAD, A ROUTE
RUBBLE FOR MILE AFTER MILE.
ENTIRE NEIGHBORHOODS WASHED
AWAY.
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF FAMILIES
LIVED AROUND BUSY MARKETPLACES
AND BACK STREETS.
NOW PARENTS SCAVENGE FOR FOOD.
THERE'S NO POWER, NO PHONE
SIGNAL, NO INTERNET, NO OTHER
WAY TO SEND A MESSAGE.
THE LOCAL MARKET PLACE, ONE OF
THE WORST AFFECTED AREAS IN
TACLOBAN, ALL THESE SHOPS AND
HOUSES MADE OF WOOD, NOW A PILE
OF TANGLED TIMBER.
NOTHING HERE STOOD A CHANCE JUST
100 METERS FROM SEA.
THERE WERE HUNDREDS FISHERMENS'
HUTS HERE.
NOW ONLY THE STILTS THEY STOOD
ON ARE LEFT, SNAPPED OFF BY WIND
AND WAVES.
THE DEAD FLOAT IN THE SEA WHICH
ONCE GAVE THEM A LIVING AND
OFFERED A FUTURE.
RAYA AL MASSIRA, EIGHT MONTHS
PREGNANT, SHOWS ME THE HOUSE,
ONE OF THE FEW MADE OF CONCRETE
THAT HER FATHER HAD SHELTERED
IN.
>> WE WERE NOT ABLE TO SAVE OUR
FATHER.
IT'S VERY SAD.
WE WERE IN THE HOUSE BECAUSE
IT'S BIG.
>> Reporter: THEY WERE TRUSTING
THIS HOUSE BECAUSE IT WAS BIG
BUT WHEN THE WATER HITS, THEY
ALL FELL DOWN AND THEY ALL DIED.
>> Reporter: EVERYWHERE THERE
ARE BODIES, FOUR DAYS ON AND IN
THE BAKING HEAT.
IT'S NO EXAGGERATION TO SAY THAT
THE STENCH OF DEATH HANGS OVER
THIS ENTIRE CITY.
BEHIND THIS PILE OF DEBRIS ARE
THE BODIES OF TWO ADULTS AND A
CHILD.
IT'S TOO DISTRESSING TO SHOW.
ONE IDENTIFIED, BUT ALL THREE AS
WE FIND A GROUP OF MEN USING A
LORRY TAKING AWAY THE DEAD.
THEY FILL THE TRUCK.
WHEN WE SPEAK TO ONE OF THEM,
ALEXANDER DOSINA, HE SAID SIX OF
CORPSES ARE HIS OWN FAMILY.
HIS MOTHER HIS WIFE AND FOUR
CHILDREN.
FOUR CHILDREN YOU'VE LOST?
>> ( translated ): FOUR
CHILDREN, ONE MOTHER, ONE WIFE.
>> Reporter: IT'S DIFFICULT TO
COMPREHEND THE LOSS OF LIFE, OF
HOMES.
DIFFICULT TO UNDERSTAND HOW
PEOPLE CAN HAVE FAITH WHEN THEY
HAVE NOTHING LEFT.
>> Ifill: A SHORT TIME AGO, I
SPOKE TO SAVE THE CHILDREN'S
LYNNETTE LIM, WHO RODE OUT THE
STORM IN TACLOBAN, AND IS NOW IN
MANILLA TO HELP COORDINATE
RELIEF EFFORTS.
LYNNETTE WE KNOW YOU WERE IN
TACLOBAN UP UNTIL YESTERDAY.
TELL US WHAT YOU SAW.
>> AFTER THE STORM HAD STRUCK.
EVERYONE WAS INSIDE AND IT WAS
JUST A COMPLETE MESS EVERYWHERE.
OUR ENTIRE PLACE WAS COMPLETELY
BLACKENED.
CHILDREN AND THE FAMILY WERE
COMING OUT.
OBVIOUSLY THERE WAS NOTHING MUCH
THEY COULD DO.
THERE WAS ALSO NO FOOD, NO
WATER.
THEY WERE DEPENDENT ON THE
GOVERNMENT TO BE ABLE TO PROVIDE
ALL OF THE BASIC NECESSITIES BUT
CHILDREN AND THE FAMILIES FOUND
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING.
BY SATURDAY MORNING, 24 HOURS
AFTER THE STORM, BY MIDDAY
SATURDAY IT HAD TAKEN PLACE ALL
AROUND THE  YOU SEE ANY EVIDENCE
OF ANY RELIEF SUPPLIES REACHING
PEOPLE YET.
>> NO, NOT YET.
THE CITY OFFICIALS AS WELL AS
LOCAL GOVERNMENT UNITS WERE
INCAPACITATED AND THEREFORE WERE
NOT WORKING WITH THE MILITARY
THAT WERE ARRIVING WITH THE
GOODS TO PEOPLE IN TACLOBAN
CITY.
THEY WERE LARGELY DEPENDENT ON
THE NATIONAL GOVERNMENT AT THIS
POINT RELIEF THAT
WAS NEEDED FOR EVERYONE.
>> Ifill:  WHEN YOU TALK ABOUT
RELIEF, HOW WOULD YOU PRIORITIZE
WHAT IS NEEDED FIRST.
>> WELL THE MOST IMPORTANT
POINTS IS WHAT IS NECESSARY FOR
CHILDREN AND THEIR FAMILIES TO
SURVIVE.
AND THERE'S SHELTER AS WELL AS
SANITATION, THERAPY, THOSE ARE
KEY FOR THESE PEOPLE AT LEAST A
COUPLE WEEKS BEFORE WE FIND A
WAY TO HELP THE ENTIRE AREA.
IT'S ALL DESTROYED SO ALL OF
THAT NEEDS TO BE RECONSTRUCTED
AS WELL.
>> Ifill:  WHERE ARE PEOPLE
SLEEPING NOW UNTIL THESE
SUPPLIES REACH THEM?
ARE THEY ON THE STREETS.
>> SOME OF THEM ARE IN THE
STREETS WHILE OTHERS ARE IN
BUILDINGS AND EVACUATION
CENTERS.
BY THE TIME I REACHED IT AFTER
THE STORM, IT WAS ABSOLUTELY
TERRIBLE.
I SAW CHILDREN WALKING AROUND
AND OPENLY -- WITH OTHER
DISASTERS.
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO SUPPORT
THESE FAMILIES.
AND THEY WOULD COME OUT WITH THE
EVACUATION CENTERS DURING THE
DAY AND CLEANING UP THE MESS
OUTSIDE WHILE WAITING FOR RELIEF
TO COME.
AT NIGHT IF IT'S RAINING, THEY
WOULD GO INSIDE AND WAIT FOR THE
RAIN TO STOP BEFORE COMING
OUTSIDE.
NOW IT'S SIMPLY INTOLERABLE.
>> Ifill:  RELIEF CAN'T GET
THERE SOON ENOUGH.
LYNNETTE LIM OF SAVE THE
CHILDREN THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Ifill: WE'LL HEAR MORE ABOUT
RELIEF EFFORTS IN THE
PHILIPPINES DISASTER AFTER THE
NEWS SUMMARY.
>> Ifill: IRAN REACHED A DEAL
TODAY WITH THE U.N.'S NUCLEAR
CHIEF TO ALLOW EXPANDED
MONITORING OF ITS NUCLEAR SITES.
THE ANNOUNCEMENT CAME ONE DAY
AFTER THE U.S. AND OTHER WORLD
POWERS FAILED TO ACHIEVE A
BROADER AGREEMENT TO CURB IRAN'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
WE'LL TALK TO MARGARET WARNER
ABOUT WHERE THE NEGOTIATIONS
STAND LATER IN THE PROGRAM.
GUNMEN IN PAKISTAN HAVE KILLED A
SENIOR LEADER OF THE HAQQANI
NETWORK, A MAJOR ALLY OF THE
AFGHAN TALIBAN.
NASIRUDDIN HAQQANI WAS GUNNED
DOWN OUTSIDE A BAKERY IN
ISLAMABAD ON SUNDAY NIGHT.
THE ASSAILANTS FIRED FROM A
MOTORCYCLE.
HAQQANI WAS BELIEVED TO BE THE
MILITANT GROUP'S CHIEF
FINANCIER.
AMERICA PAID TRIBUTE TO THOSE
WHO SERVED IN THE MILITARY, ON
THIS VETERANS DAY.
IN KEEPING WITH TRADITION,
PRESIDENT OBAMA LAID A WREATH AT
THE TOMB OF THE UNKNOWNS AT
ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY.
HE SAID AS U.S. COMBAT TROOPS
WIND DOWN THEIR MISSION IN
AFGHANISTAN, THE COUNTRY MUST
NOT FORGET THEIR SACRIFICES.
>> OUR TROOPS WEAR THE UNIFORM
FOR A TIME, YET THEY WEAR
ANOTHER PROUD TITLE, THE TITLE
OF "VETERAN," FOR DECADES, FOR
THE REST OF THEIR LIVES.
AS A NATION, WE MAKE SURE WE
HAVE THE BEST-LED, BEST-TRAINED,
BEST-EQUIPPED MILITARY IN THE
WORLD.
WE HAVE TO DEVOTE JUST AS MUCH
ENERGY AND PASSION TO MAKING
SURE WE HAVE THE BEST CARED-FOR,
BEST-TREATED, BEST-RESPECTED
VETERANS IN THE WORLD.
>> Ifill: ONE OF THE NATION'S
OLDEST VETERANS ATTENDED THE
ARLINGTON CEREMONIES.
RICHARD OVERTON IS 107 YEARS
OLD, AND LIVES IN TEXAS.
HE WAS IN THE ARMY IN WORLD WAR
TWO, AND SERVED AT PEARL HARBOR,
OKINAWA AND IWO JIMA.
TWO WEEKS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
NEGOTIATIONS HAVE OPENED IN
WARSAW, POLAND.
ENVOYS FROM 190 COUNTRIES WILL
DISCUSS HOW TO CUT EMISSIONS OF
CARBON DIOXIDE AND OTHER
GREENHOUSE GASES LINKED TO
RISING GLOBAL TEMPERATURES.
UNITED NATIONS OFFICIALS HOPE TO
LAY THE GROUNDWORK FOR A CLIMATE
PACT IN 2015.
A WIND FARM 12 MILES OFF THE
COAST OF FUKUSHIMA, JAPAN
POWERED UP TODAY FOR THE FIRST
TIME.
OFFICIALS HIT THE "ON" SWITCH
FROM SHORE AND THEN WATCHED FOR
THE FIRST TURBINE TO START
TURNING.
ELECTRICITY IS BEING FED TO THE
GRID THAT WAS CRIPPLED AFTER AN
EARTHQUAKE AND TSUNAMI SEVERELY
DAMAGED THE FUKUSHIMA NUCLEAR
PLANT.
>> ( translated ): MANY PEOPLE
WERE VICTIMIZED AND HURT BY THE
ACCIDENT AT THE FUKUSHIMA DAI-
ICHI NUCLEAR POWER PLANT, SO IT
IS VERY MEANINGFUL TO HAVE A NEW
SOURCE OF ENERGY-- RENEWABLE
ENERGY-- BASED HERE AT
FUKUSHIMA.
IT IS THE GOVERNMENT'S MISSION
TO ENSURE THIS PROJECT IS A
SUCCESS.
>> Ifill: THERE WILL EVENTUALLY
BE 143 FLOATING TURBINES AT THE
FUKUSHIMA WIND FARM, ANCHORED TO
T SEAHEBED BY HUGE CHAINS.
WALL STREET HAD A QUIET START TO
THE WEEK.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 21 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,783.
THE NASDAQ ROSE A FRACTION OF A
POINT TO STAY ABOVE 319.,9
>> Ifill: STILL AHEAD ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": THE STRUGGLE TO
DELIVER AID TO TYPHOON-RAVAGED
PHILIPPINES; THE LATEST ON
NEGOTIATIONS WITH IRAN OVER ITS
NUCLEAR PROGRAM; CONVINCING SO-
CALLED YOUNG INVINCIBLES TO BUY
HEALTH INSURANCE; A COLLEGE
PROGRAM AIMED AT HELPING
VETERANS WRITE THE NEXT CHAPTER
IN THEIR LIVES AND THE YOUNGEST
WINNER EVER FOR BRITAIN'S TOP
FICTION PRIZE.
>> Wooduff: THE DEVASTATION IN
THE PHILIPPINES HAS OVERWHELMED
THAT GOVERNMENT'S ABILITY TO
PROVIDE RELIEF TO TYPHOON
VICTIMS.
ONE SUPPLIER-- THE COUNTRY'S AIR
FORCE-- STRUGGLED TODAY WITH
LIMITED SUPPLIES AND ACCESS TO
REMOTE AREAS.
WE HAVE A REPORT FROM ALEX
THOMPSON OF "INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS."
>> porReter: IT CAN BE
AGONIZINGLY SLOW.
BRIGADIER GENERAL QUIAPO IS NOT
HAPPY.
HE WANTS MORE AID TO DISTRIBUTE.
THERE ARE REMOTE AREAS, HUNGRY
PEOPLE, TIME IS SLIPPING BY.
SO THEY PUSH OUT WHAT THEY'VE
GOT INTO THE WAITING
HELICOPTERS.
THE 206th TACTICAL HELICOPTER
SQUADRON OF THE PHILIPPINES
AIRFORCE NOW ON THE LIFE SAVING
RICE DELIVERY SERVICE.
OUT OVER THIS SHATTERED
SATURATED LANDSCAPE, THERE ARE
PEOPLE WHO HAVE STILL NOT BEEN
REACHED.
SOUTH FROM ROXAS, THE PROVINCIAL
CAPITAL, TO A REMOTE FISHING
VILLAGE, APPARENTLY CUT OFF BY
FLOODING.
DESPERATE, HUNGRY,  THEY ARE
ALERTED BY THE NOISE AND COME
FROM NOWHERE.
SMILES THAT SAY IT ALL, BUT THE
PAYLOAD IS PUNY.
THIS IS OVER IN SECONDS.
EVEN AS OTHERS ARRIVE IN HOPE.
AT THAT WE WERE ORDERED BACK ON
BOARD.
BACK AT THE CIVILIAN AIRPORT
COMMANDEERED BY THE MILITARY,
YOU SOON REALIZE, THIS AIRBRIDGE
IS ITSELF COMPLETELY DEPENDENT
ON THE INCOMING C-130s AND THE
AID THEY CAN BRING IN FROM THE
CAPITAL.
>> WE CANNOT FAIL OUR
COUNTRYMEN.
AND WE HAVE TO DO OUR JOB.
IT'S A VERY TAXING JOB BUT WE
HAVE TO HELP OUR COUNTRYMEN.
>> Reporter: WE WAITED AND WE
WAITED BUT ANOTHER EXPECTED
DELIVERY OF RICE SIMPLE DIDN'T
ARRIVE.
SO THE MISSION INTO THE INTERIOR
THIS AFTERNOON AND THE MOUNTAINS
WAS PURELY ABOUT WATER.
THE SPIRITUAL PROTECTION OF THE
OUR PILOT MADE THREE PASSES AND
STILL THE RIDGE WAS TOO
PRECARIOUS TO ACTUALLY HIT LAND.
SO A FEW SECONDS OF HOVERING AND
VITAL WATER DELIVERED.
ANYWAY YOU CAN, SO LONG AS IT'S
FAST.
SO IT IS THAT THE LIFELINE OF
DRINKING WATER COMES NOT FROM
THE VILLAGE WELLS ANYMORE BUT
FROM THE 206th TACTICAL
HELICOPTER SQUADRON.
TODAY PRESIDENT AKINO DECLARED A
STATE OF CALAMITY.
ESSENTIALLY A WAY OF STOPPING
PROFITEERING AND LOOTING AND
FREEING UP STATE FUNDS SO GET
AIDE WHERE IT IS NEEDED.
NIGHT HAS FALLEN AND THEY'VE
COME DOWN FROM THEIR SHATTERED
VILLAGES IN THE MOUNTAINS TO
LIVE HERE NOW, IN A PRIMARY
SCHOOL.
FOUR FAMILIES IN THIS ONE SMALL
CLASSROOM.
NO POWER, NO RUNNING WATER.
ONE MOTHER HAS ALREADY COME DOWN
WITH CHICKEN POX.
OUTSIDE, ANALISSA DELGADO COOKS
TUNA DONATED BY A CHARITY.
>> Reporter: A FEW FEET AWAY,
TINY INISTA BOWLAS.
HEAS B WORN THE DAY BEFORE
TYPHOON.
RENDERED HOMELESS ON THE SECOND
DAY OF HIS LIFE.
SUCH IS THE SCALE OF WHAT IS
HAPPENING HERE.
THAT THESE PEOPLE WILL BE
CONSIDERED FORTUNATE BY THE
STANDARDS OF SOME IN THIS
REGION.
YES, THEY ARE HOMELESS AND
DESTITUTE, BUT THEY ARE AT LEAST
ALIVE AND UNHURT.
>> Wooduff: FOR MORE ON HOW THE
PHILIPPINES WILL HAVE TO
NAVIGATE IT'S MASSIVE
HUMANITARIAN EFFORT WITH THE
HELP OF INTERNATIONAL AID
AGENCIES AND GOVERNMENTS, I'M
JOINED BY ANDREW NATSIOS, FORMER
DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF
FOREIGN DISASTER ASSISTANCE AT
THE U.S. AGENCY FOR
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT DURING
THE GEORGE W. BUSH
ADMINISTRATION.
ANDREW NATSIOS, THANK YOU FOR
TALKING WITH US.
COMPARED TO OTHER DALS STIRS
YOU'VE SEEN, WHAT IS THE
CHALLENGE, HOW WOULD YOU
DESCRIBE THE CHALLENGE PRESENTED
BY WHAT'S HAPPENED IN THE
PHILIPPINE.
>> THERE ARE TWO THINGS HERE.
ONE IT'S THE WORST TYPHOON IN
HISTORY SO THE DAMAGE IS MORE
SEVERE.
THE SECOND THING WE'RE FACING IS
THE FACT THIS IS THE FOURTH
TYPHOON THAT'S HIT THE
PHILIPPINES THIS YEAR.
THEN THEY HAD AN EARTHQUAKE A
FEW WEEKS AGO.
THIS IS NOT THE FIRST DISASTER
BUT THE FIFTH DISASTER IN ONE
YEAR.
THE THIRD PROBLEM IS THERE'S SO
MUCH DEBRIS THAT IT'S DIFFICULT
FOR TRUCKS TO GET THROUGH AND
AIRCRAFT TO GET THROUGH.
THE U.S. OFFICE OF FOREIGN
DISASTER ASSISTANCE AND USAID
SENT A TEAM IN BEFORE THE
TYPHOON STRUCK SO THEY WOULD BE
THERE AS SOON AS THE TYPHOON WAS
OVER.
AND THEY STARTED ASSESSMENTS
WITHIN ONE HOUR AFTER THE STORM
SUBSIDED.
PAYCON, U.S. PACIFIC COMMAND IS
WORKING WITH USAID TO SEND IN
LOGISTICAL SUPPORT AND U.S. AID
AND PAYCON, WORKED TOGETHER AND
THEY DID THEIR JOB AND THERE WAS
NO POLITICAL INTERFERENCE.
SOMETIMES PEOPLE IN WASHINGTON
THEY GET SO IMPATIENT THEY START
IMMOBILIZING DOMESTIC AGENCIES
TO GET INVOLVED IN THE U.S. THAT
REALLY HAVE NO EXPERIENCE IN
DISASTER RESPONSE.
MY URGE FOR POLICY MAKERS ARE
LET U.S. AID AND U.S. MILITARY
GET THEIR WORK DONE.
THEY'RE THE ONES IN THE FIELD
WHO KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON.
THEY SHOULD BE MAKING THE
DECISIONS AT THE FIELD LEVEL.
>> Woodruff:  WHO IS IN CHARGE
IN A SITUATION LIKE THIS, THE
PHILIPPINE GOVERNMENT IS THERE
BUT AS YOU POINTED OUT THEY'VE
BEEN TESTED BY ONE DISASTER
AFTER ANOTHER IN THE LAST FEW
WEEKS.
>> BUT THEY HAVE A COMMAND
STRUCTURE THAT'S IN PLACE TO
MAKE DECISIONS.
ULTIMATELY IT'S THE PHILIPPINE
GOVERNMENT IN CHARGE.
IN TERMS OF THE U.S. EFFORT IT
PUTS THE USAID ADMINISTRATOR FOR
FIVE YEARS, I WAS THE CORED
--
COORDINATOR FOR U.S. DISASTER
ABROAD AND IT'S REPORTS TO AIS
IN TERMS OF RESPONSES AND WHAT
NEEDS TO HAPPEN.
>> Woodruff:  WHAT HAPPENS IN
TERMS OF ORDER.
IS IT THE MATTER OF ONE AGENCY
FOCUSES ON WATER, ANOTHER ONE ON
HOUSING AND ANOTHER ONE ON
SANITATION?
I MEAN, HOW DO THESE AGENCIES
DIVIDE IT UP.
>> WELL THERE'S AN INTERNATIONAL
ACCEPTED SYSTEM THAT'S BEEN
WORKED OUT OVER MANY YEARS.
WE CALL THEM CLUSTERS.
HOUSING IS A CLUSTER, WATER AND
SANITATION IS A CLUSTER, FOOD
AND NUTRITION IS ANOTHER
EMERGENCY MEDICAL CARE IN AID
CONSTRUCTION.
HUMAN AND OTHER GOVERNMENT
ORGAINIZATIONS SPECIALIZE IN
CERTAIN AREAS.
THEY ALL KNOW WHAT THEY'RE
ASSIGNED TO DO.
NGO'S ALREADY HAD PROGRAMS IN
THE PHILIPPINES.
THEY'RE ON THE SAME WAVELENGTH
AS USAID AND THE UN AGENCIES.
THE OFFICE ON THE COORDINATED
HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE IS
SUPPOSED TO COORDINATE THE
INTERNATIONAL RESPONSE AND THEY
USUALLY DO, NOT ALWAYS A GOOD
JOB.
THEY WERE THERE VERY QUICKLY
ALONG WITH USAID OFFICER AND THE
PHILIPPINE GOVERNMENT.
SO FAR FROM WHAT I CAN TELL,
PEOPLE ARE TRYING THEIR BEST
UNDER THE CIRCUMSTANCES.
THE PEOPLE'S EXPECTATIONS ARE SO
HIGH THEY WANT IMMEDIATE
ASSISTANCE WHEN IT TAKES TIME
SIMPLY TO MOVE EVERYTHING.
I KNOW FOR EXAMPLE PLANES WERE
ARRIVING THIS MORNING IN MANILA
IN THE REGIONAL CITIES NEARBY AT
11:00 THIS MORNING PHILIPPINE
TIME WERE THE FIRST SHIPMENTS OF
SHELTER MATERIAL, COOKING
EQUIPMENT AND HEALTH EQUIPMENT
AS WELL.
AID AND U.S. GOVERNMENT HAVE
CONTRIBUTED $20 MILLION THIS
MORNING.
THAT'S ONLY THE FIRST BUNCH OF
ASSISTANCE THEY WILL BE
PROVIDING, 10 MILLION TO THE
WORLD FOOD PROGRAM TO BRING IN
PROTEIN BISCUITS AND RICE TO BE
BROUGHT IN.
THAT'S BEING SHIPPED NOW BY THE
WAY OF FOOD CORPS PROBABLY ONE
OF THE MOST COMPETENT OF ALL THE
HUMAN AGENCIES IN TERMS OF
RESPONSE.
THEY USUALLY DO HAVE VERY GOOD
JOB.
>> Woodruff:  BEFORE WE WRAP
UP HERE FOR PEOPLE WHO ARE
WATCHING AND WANT TO BE HELPFUL
WHAT'S THE BEST THING THEY CAN
DO.
>> ONE THING NOT TO DO IS DON'T
SEND USED CLOTHES OR CANS OF
FOOD OR THING OUT ON THEIR
MEDICINE CHEST BUT THEY SHOULD
CONTRIBUTE CASH TO THE NGO WHO
WORKS IN THE PHILIPPINES OR
THROUGH THEIR CHURCH OR
SYNAGOGUE OR MOSQUE THEY GIVE
MONEY THROUGH.
I SUGGEST THEY GO TO INTERACTION
A CONSORTIUM OF NGO'S, AND THEY
CAN CHOOSE WHICH ONE THEY WANT
N.
IT'S MUCH EASIER TO MOVE MONEY
INTO THE  PHILIPPINES THAN IT IS
TO MOVE COMMODITIES AND WHAT THE
COMMODITIES ARE ACTUALLY WORTH.
>> Woodruff:  THANK YOU WITH
THE HELPFUL INFORMATION.
WE THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Wooduff: ONLINE, WE HAVE A
GUIDE TO ORGANIZATIONS THAT ARE
DELIVERING AID TO VICTIMS OF THE
TYPHOON AND WAYS YOU CAN HELP.
FIND THAT INFORMATION ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
>> Ifill: DESPITE INITIAL SIGNS
OF HOPE, AN INTERIM DEAL OVER
IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM WAS NOT
REACHED IN GENEVA THIS WEEKEND.
CHIEF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
CORRESPONDENT MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS ON WHAT HAPPENED, AND ON
EFFORTS TO KEEP A FUTURE
AGREEMENT ALIVE.
>> Reporter: SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY WAS IN THE UNITED
ARAB EMIRATES TODAY, TRYING TO
REASSURE AMERICA'S ARAB ALLIES
THAT NEGOTIATIONS WITH IRAN WILL
NOT PUT THEIR SECURITY AT RISK.
>> OUR HOPE IS THAT IN THE NEXT
MONTHS WE CAN FIND AN AGREEMENT
THAT MEETS EVERYBODY'S STANDARD.
THIS IS NOT A RACE TO COMPLETE
JUST ANY AGREEMENT.
NO DEAL IS BETTER THAN A BAD
DEAL I HAVE SAID MANY TIMES AS
HAS PRESIDENT OBAMA.
>> Reporter: THE SECRETARY HAD
DIVERTED FROM HIS MIDDLE EAST
TOUR, AT THE WEEKEND, TO ATTEND
THE TALKS IN GENEVA WITH IRAN
AND FIVE OTHER WORLD POWERS--
BRITAIN, RUSSIA, FRANCE, CHINA
AND GERMANY.
THEY REPORTEDLY WERE SEEKING A
HALT TO IRAN'S NUCLEAR ACTIVITY
FOR SIX MONTHS, IN EXCHANGE FOR
AN EASING OF SOME SANCTIONS.
BUT EARLY SUNDAY MORNING, THE
DIPLOMATS CAME UP SHORT,
AMID REPORTS THAT FRANCE HAD
DEMANDED STRICTER CURBS ON
IRAN'S PROGRAM, PARTICULARLY ITS
HEAVY WATER REACTOR IN ARAK,
WHICH COULD PRODUCE PLUTONIUM
ONCE IT'S OPERATIONAL.
TODAY, THOUGH, KERRY INSISTED IT
WAS IRAN THAT SAID NO.
>> THERE WAS UNITY BUT IRAN
COULDN'T TAKE IT.
AT THAT PARTICULAR MOMENT, THEY
WEREN'T ABLE TO ACCEPT THAT
PARTICULAR AGREEMENT.
>> Reporter: IN LONDON, BRITISH
FOREIGN SECRETARY WILLIAM HAGUE
WARNED IRAN COULD FACE TOUGHER
SANCTIONS IF NO DEAL IS REACHED.
IN THE MEANTIME, HE SAID:
>> SANCTIONS ARE COSTING THE
IRANIAN ECONOMY AT LEAST $4
BILLION A MONTH.
AND THIS COST WILL BE MAINTAINED
UNTIL WE REACH AN AGREEMENT.
UNTIL SUCH A MOMENT, THERE IS NO
QUESTION OF US RELAXING THE
PRESSURE OF SANCTIONS IN ANY
WAY.
>> Reporter: ISRAELI PRIME
MINISTER BENJAMIN NETANYHUA
REPEATEDLY CONDEMNED THE
EMERGING DEAL, AS HE DID
YESTERDAY ON CBS'S "FACE THE
NATION."
>> IRAN GIVES PRACTICALLY
NOTHING, AND IT GETS A HELL OF A
LOT.
THAT'S NOT A GOOD DEAL.
>> Reporter: IRAN DID REACH A
SEPARATE AGREEMENT TODAY WITH
THE INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY
AGENCY, FOR GREATER ACCESS TO
SOME NUCLEAR SITES.
MEANWHILE, TEHRAN'S TALKS WITH
THE WORLD POWERS ARE SET TO
RESUME ON NOVEMBER 20.
>> Ifill: AND MARGARET JOINS ME
NOW.
SO MARGARET, LAST WE TALKED
ABOUT THIS, EVERYTHING WAS ABOUT
TO HAPPEN OVER THE WEEKEND.
WNO IT COLLAPSE THE IN WHAT
LOOKS LIKE A WELTER OF
FINGERPOINTING.
WHAT HAPPENED.
>> YOU SEE THERE'S COMPETING
VERSIONS WITH SOMETHING KERRY
SAY WITH ROORN COULD ACCEPT THE
DEAL AND YOU HAVE FRANCE
OBJECTING.
BUT THE IRAN FARM MINISTER
TWEETED OUT TODAY A COUPLE TIMES
I KNOW IT WILL NOT CHANGE BUT
WHAT WENT ON IN THE P5.
ANOTHER POINT HE SAID
MR. SECRETARY, WAS IT IRAN THAT
GUTTED THE AGREEMENT.
I THINK THE REPORTING I'VE BEEN
ABLE TO DO AND I CAUTION TO SAY
THAT NEITHER SECRETARY KERRY NOR
UNDERSECRETARY SHERMAN ARE BACK
YET.
SO A LOT OF THE PRINCIPALS
AREN'T HERE BUT IT WAS BOTH.
IN OTHER WORDS, ONE WE KNOW THEY
FELT CLOSE TO PLANNING THE
EVENTS WHILE SECRETARY KERRY
WASN'T GOING TO FLY IN UNTIL
THEY GOT IT DOWN TO ONE ISSUE IN
WHICH HE COULD COME IN AND
NEGOTIATE AT THE END.
LIKE THE YOU FOREIGN MINISTERS
DID.
TWO IT'S CLEAR THE FRENCH FARM
MINISTER RAISED THIS OBJECTION
HAVING TO DO WITH THE IRAQ HEAVY
WATER REACTOR.
AND THEN THREE, IT'S CLEAR THAT
BY LATE SATURDAY NIGHT AND EARLY
SUNDAY MORNING, SOMEHOW THE P5,
THAT IS THE U.S. PARTNERS CAME
OFTEN WITH SOMETHING TOGETHER
WHICH THEN IRAN BALKED AT.
WHAT WE DON'T KNOW IS WAS IT
IF
THEY FELT THEY HIT THE GOAL
POST.
LAST TIME WE TALKED ON THURSDAY
NIGHT YOU SAID WHAT DO THE OTHER
MEMBERS MEAN AND I WOULD SAY
YES, OF COURSE, BUT REALLY THE
U.S. AND IRAN HAVE BEEN
ANTAGONISTS HERE.
SO ESSENTIALLY IMPLYING THAT'S
WHAT COUNTED.
THAT'S WHAT THE ADMINISTRATION
THOUGHT.
CLEARLY A MISCALCULATION.
AND THE U.S. WAS, IT'S NO
SURPRISED THAT FRANCE HAS ALWAYS
BEEN THE MOST HAWKISH IN PRIVATE
DISCUSSIONS BASED ON LONG
HISTORY OF NEGOTIATING WITH IRAN
AND COME CLOSE TO ISRAEL.
BUT TO BE PUBLICLY BLIND SIDED
THAT DID COME UNTOLD AS A
SURPRISE AND NOW THE
ADMINISTRATION HAS TO FIGURE OUT
HOW TO NOT LET THAT HAPPEN
AGAIN.
>> Ifill:  IT'S CLEAR THAT
NETANYAHU WAS NOT EVER GOING TO
BE ON BOARD.
HOW MUCH OF THIS CHANGED BECAUSE
OF HIS INSISTENCE THIS WAS A BAD
DEAL NOT ONLY TO HIS ALLIES WHO
WERE THERE IN GENEVA BUT ALSO
HERE IN THE U.S. DEALING WITH
OUR DOMESTIC CONCERNS ABOUT
ISRAEL.
>> I THINK PRIME MINISTER
NETANYAHU'S OBJECTIONS AND ROLE
CANNOT BE  OVERSTATED OR UNDER
ESTIMATED.
HE'S HAD A DRUM BEAT YOU SAID
TALKING TO PEOPLE NOT ONLY TO
THE ADMINISTRATION BORROW THE
PEOPLE ON THE FILL AND HE
CONFIRMS SUSPICIONS YESTERDAY HE
CALLED MOST OF THESE EUROPEAN
LEADERS.
AND HE SAID DON'T DO A PREMATURE
DEAL THAT WOULD ENABLE RUIN TO
YESTERDAY SAYING HE HAD BEEN
GIVEN THE OUTLINES BY HIS
AMERICAN SOURCES AND THAT'S WHAT
THEY ARE GOING TO DO.
A LOT MORE DETAILS WILL EMERGE
BUT I HAVEN'T HEARD ANYONE SAY
IN FACT HE'S DEAD WRONG ABOUT
THAT.
IN OTHER WORDS SOME OF THE FINE
POINTS TO WHAT LEVEL THEY MIGHT
BE ABLE TO CONTINUE ENRICHING
DURING THIS PAUSE.
>> Ifill:  I WAS INTERESTED TO
SEE U.S. SENATORS COMING OUT AND
SAYING AND EVEN GOVERNORS COMING
OUT AND SAYING THIS IS A BAD
DEAL OVER THE LAST FEW DAYS
WHICH SUGGESTED SOMEONE WAS
SUGGESTING TO THEM THERE'S A BAD
DEAL.
SO WHEN JOHN KERRY GETS BACK TO
THE UNITED STATES WHAT'S HIS
FIRST GOAL.
>> HE'S GOING RIGHT TO THE HILL.
TOMORROW HE'S GOING WITH
CAROLINE KENNEDY AS AMBASSADOR
TO JAPAN, I DON'T KNOW WHEN HE
GETS HOME.
BUT WEDNESDAY HE'S GIVING A
CLASSIFIED MEETING TO THE SENATE
BANKING COMMITTEE.
AS YOU AND I DISCUSSED THURSDAY
IT'S ON THE BANKING COMMITTEE
SOME ALLIES WANT TO HAMSTRING
THE PRESIDENT FROM BEING ABLE TO
EVEN OFFER SANCTIONS THROUGH A
WAIVER PROVISION IN THE
LEGISLATION.
IN OTHER WORDS, ONE, SOMEONE
THREATENED TO ADD A NEW
SANCTIONS DURING THE
NEGOTIATIONS.
BUT OTHERS ARE SAYING WELL AT
THE VERY LEAST WE SHOULD REMOVE
THE PRESIDENT'S ABILITY TO DEAL
WITH THE LEGISLATION WAS PASSED
AND IF SO, WHAT REPORTS ARE THAT
THE U.S. PUT ON THE TABLE THAT
IS TO UNFREE FUNDS OVERSEAS
WOULD NOT BE ABLE.
>> Ifill:  IS IT BETTER ALIVE.
>> I THINK IT'S STILL ALIVE.
I THINK THE SECRETARY HAS A LOT
OF WORK TO DO ON THE HILL AND
THE NEGOTIATING PARTNERS AND
WITH RUIN IN NINE DAYS RIFLE
RIFLE ALL RIGHT, MARGARET
WARNER, THANKS VERY MUCH.
>> Wooduff: TONIGHT WE BEGIN A
WEEK-LONG SERIES ON REACTIONS TO
THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT, NOW
THAT AMERICANS HAVE HAD TIME TO
READ THE FINE PRINT.
FIRST, WE FOCUS ON A PIVOTAL
DEMOGRAPHIC NEEDED TO MAKE THE
STATE HEALTH EXCHANGES WORK-- A
GROUP OFTEN REFERRED TO AS
"YOUNG INVINCIBLES."
OUR REPORT COMES FROM OUR
COLLEAGUES AT WISCONSIN PUBLIC
TELEVISION.
THE CORRESPONDENT IS FREDERICA
FREYBERG.
>> TAKE A DEEP DEEP BREATH IN.
>> 25 YEAR OLD GEORGIA CURRY IS
A COLLEGE GRADUATE AND YOGA
INSTRUCTOR.
>> WORKING AT THE FREELANCE AND
DIFFERENT AREAS OF DIFFERENT
YOGA STUDIOS IN FITNESS.
AND I NEED INSURANCE.
GRAB YOUR LEFT ANKLE.
>> SHE SAYS SHE NEEDS INSURANCE
BY NEXT YEAR WHEN SHE TURNS 26
AND IS NO LONGER ON HER PARENTS
PLAN.
CURRY ACKNOWLEDGES HER WORK
KEEPS HER FIT.
SHE KNOWS SHE'S YOUNG AND
HEALTHY BUT NOT INVINCIBLE.
>> YOU NEVER KNOW WHEN YOU'RE
GOING TO BREAK YOUR LEG OR GET
IN A CAR ACCIDENT.
LIKE YOU NEVER KNOW.
>> IN WISCONSIN, 19% OF 18-34
YEAR OLDS ARE UNINSURED.
IN WILL WALKIE THAT NUMBER IS
26%.
STATE-WIDE THAT'S 229,000
UNINSURED YOUNG PEOPLE IN THAT
AGE GROUP.
BRIAN BREL IS THE BROOM CALLED
YOUNG INVINCIBLES WHICH
ADVOCATES FOR ECONOMIC SECURITY
INCLUDING THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT.
>> YOUNG ADULTS ARE THE LARGE
UNINSURED AGE GROUP.
THIS IS A HUGE GROUP AND A LOT
OF PEOPLE IN THE LOWER INCOME
BEEN ABLE TOQUALIFY FOR SOME
BENEFITS.
THE THING IS YOU CAME UP WITH
THE NAME BECAUSE WE'RE NOT
INVINCIBLE.
YOUNG PEOPLE ARE GOING TO GET
HURT AND SICK AT SOME POINT.
IT'S A MATTER OF WHEN.
WHEN YOU COMPARE LOOKING AT A
PREMIUM  THAT COSTS YOU A HUNDRD
A MONTH OR A BROKEN BONE THERE'S
A BIG DIFFERENCE AND CAN GIVE
YOU REAL FINANCIAL SECURITY.
>> SOME YOUNG PEOPLE JUST DON'T
BUY IT.
20 YEAR OLD HALEY SINCLAIRE IS A
MADISON U STUDENT ACTIVE IN
YOUNG AMERICANS FOR LIBERTY,
STAUNCHLY OPPOSED TO THE NEW
HEALTHCARE LAW.
>> YOU ARE BEING TAXED OR FINE
IF YOU DON'T SIGN UP FOR
HEALTHCARE.
AND THAT'S FRUSTRATING BECAUSE
IT'S MANDATED FOR HEALTHCARE.
>> UNDER THE AFFORDABLE CARE ACT
THE PENALTY FOR AN INDIVIDUAL
NOT HAVING INSURANCE IS $95 IN
2014.
IT GOES UP TO $325 IN 2015 AND
$695 IN 2016.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO PAY NO
PREMIUM.
>> ACCORDING ONLY TO ESTIMATES
BECAUSE SHE COULDN'T GET INTO
THE ON-LINE MARKETPLACE CURRY'S
INSURANCE PREMIUM FOR 2014 FOR A
MID TEAR PLAN WOULD BE $2,428 A
YEAR.
BUT BECAUSE OF HER INCOME, SHE
COULD GET A GOVERNMENT TAX
CREDIT OF $2,  888, MAKING IS
HER PREMIUM $240 A YEAR.
>> I WILL VENTURE WHO GUESS WHO
WILL NOT BUY INSURANCE THE FIRST
YEAR AND HAVE THE PENALTY BUT AS
THE PENALTY INCREASES YEAR TO
YEAR I THINK YOU GET TO A POINT
WHERE IT'S WORTHWHILE TO JUST
PAY AND HAVE THE COVERAGE.
>> THE CHOICE THAT PEOPLE THINK
THEY WOULD RATHER PAY THE
PENALTY, BUT I THINK ESPECIALLY
STARTING IN 2016 THE PENALTIES
WILL ACTUALLY BE QUITE A BIT
HIGHER, IT WILL BE A MINIMUM OF
$700.
IN SOME INSTANCES WITH TAX
CREDITS IT COULD ACTUALLY BE
CHEAPER TO BUY HEALTH INSURANCE.
>> THE PUSH IS ON AND BUILT INTO
THE LAW TO INCENTIVIZE 18-34
YEAR OLDS TO ENROLL IN THE
HEALTHCARE MARKETPLACE.
WE ASKED U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
REGIONAL DIRECTOR KATHLEEN
BIT.
HOW IMPORTANT IS IATE TO GET
THIS YOUNG HEALTHY DEMOGRAPHIC
INTO THE KIND OF GROUP.
>> IT'S IMPORTANT TO HELP A
BIGGER POOL SO WE ALL PAY LOWER
RATES.
WE ALL HAVE SOME SKIN IN THAT
GAME.
BUT IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT BECAUSE
OF THEIR HEALTH.
>> INSURERS AND PROVIDERS IN THE
MARKETPLACE ACKNOWLEDGE THEY
WANT THE YOUNG ENROLLEES.
>> THE BIG DEMOGRAPHIC WE'RE
TRYING TO ATTRACT HERE WITH THE
MARKET PLACE IS THE YOUNG
INVINCIBLES AS WE CALL THEM.
YOUNG PEOPLE THAT COULD GET
HEALTH INSURANCE BUT MAY NOT
HAVE THE CHRONIC ILLNESSES THAT
SOMEBODY IN THE MEDICARE AGE
GREW DO.
SO JUST BECAUSE THEY'LL HAVE
INSURANCE DOESN'T MEAN THEY'LL
NEED THAT CARE.
>> SINCLAIRE SAYS SHE OPPOSES
THE PREMISE.
>> I HAVE TO TRY TO FIND A JOB
TO PAY OFF MY STUDENT LOAN DEBT
BUT ALSO PAY EXORBITANT AMOUNT
FOR NEW HEALTH CARE PREMIUMS AND
THAT'S FOR THE YOUNG PEOPLE
BECAUSE THEY'RE 9 ONES COVERING
EVERYONE ELSE.
WHAT HAPPENS, THIS IS WHAT
SUPPORTERS TALK ABOUT, YOU
ACROSS THE UNIVERSITY AVENUE AND
YOU GET HIT BY A CAR AND YOU
BREAK YOUR LEG.
WHAT THEN?
>> WHAT I HAVE TO DO IS SUFFER
THE CONSEQUENCES BECAUSE I MADE
THAT CHOICE AS AN INDIVIDUAL TO
GO UNINSURED AND DEAL WITH THE
EXPENSE AND IF I HAVE TO INTO
DET AFBTER COLLEGE I HAVE TO.
THAT'S MY INDIVIDUAL
RESPONSIBILITY.
>> 1986 LAW REQUIRES HOSPITALS
TO PROVIDE CARE TO ANYONE
NEEDING EMERGENCY HEALTHCARE
TREATMENT REGARDLESS OF ABILITY
TO PAY.
THE NEW AFFORDABLE CARE ACT IS
DESIGNED TO REDUCE THAT MOST
EXPENSIVE KIND OF TREATMENT BY
INCENTIVIZING PRIMARY AND
PREVENTIVE CARE.
BECAUSE EMERGENCY ROOM BILLS ADD
UP FASTND A CERTAINLY NOT ALL OF
THOSE CHARGES INCURRED BY EVEN
THE BEST INTENTIONS, BUT
UNINSURED YOUNG INVINCIBLE WILL
OR COULD BE PAID.
>> I WORK PAYCHECK TO PAYCHECK
PRETTY MUCH.
>> FOR YOUNG PEOPLE LIKE GEORGIA
CURRY WORKING JOBS THAT OFFER NO
INSURANCE ...
>> I DON'T WANT TO TAKE THE RISK
OF NOT HAVING INSURANCE.
>> HER SALARY COULDN'T WITHSTAND
THE HIGH COST OF EMERGENCY CARE
BIG INTO THE MARKETPLACE IS THE
PREFERRED POSITION.
>> EXHALE, HANDS TO THE MATT,
STIP BACK, TAKE A BOW.
>> Wooduff: LATER THIS WEEK THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION IS EXPECTED
TO RELEASE ITS FIRST REPORT OF
HOW MANY PEOPLE OF ANY AGE HAVE
ENROLLED IN THE INSURANCE
MARKETPLACES SO FAR.
THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL" TODAY
PEGGED THAT NUMBER AT FEWER THAN
50,000.
>> Ifill: AS THE NATION
STRUGGLES WITH ITS HEALTH CARE
DEMANDS, SO TOO DO VETERANS
WHOSE HEALTH CHALLENGES ARE
COMPLICATED BY THEIR SERVICE.
MORE THAN A MILLION IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN VETS HAVE USED THE
GI BILL TO PURSUE A COLLEGE
DEGREE.
BUT THEY ARE OFTEN COPING WITH
INJURIES AND STRESS THAT MAKE
FOR A TOUGH BATTLEFIELD-TO-
CLASSROOM TRANSITION.
OUR PARTNERS AT KQED AND THE
CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING BRING US THE STORY OF
A COMMUNITY COLLEGE PROGRAM THAT
OFFERS A SIMPLE SOLUTION-- BRING
HEALTH SERVICES WHERE THEY'RE
NEEDED MOST.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT AARON
GLANTZ HAS THAT STORY.
>> DANNY SIGNED UP TO BE A COOK
IN THE U.S. ARMY.
WITHIN WEEKS, HE WAS DEPLOYED TO
IRAQ.
>> I WAS ABOUT 17 WHEN THE
THAT REALLYFFEC ATED ME AND I
WANTED TO ACTUALLY MAKE SOME
CHANGE.
>> I WAS REASSIGNED TO A MACHINE
GUNNER RUNNING CONVOICES FROM
SADDAM HUSSEIN'S HOME TOWN.
>> LIEUTENANT COMES UP TO ME AND
SAYS HEY PRIVATE, HAVE YOU EVER
FIRED A 50 CALIBER MACHINE GUN
BEFORE.
NO, SIR.
YOU BETTER LEARN.
>> WHEN HE RETURNED FROM HIS
TOUR, HIS MOTHER LUCY THOUGHT HE
HAD CHANGED.
>> YOU SEE THE PICTURE OF THAT
FIRST HUG THE FIRST EMBRACE.
I LOOK IN HIS EYES AND I THOUGHT
OH MY GOD HIS EYES ARE THAT OF
AN OLD MAN.
>> IF ANYONE WOULD EVER GET NEAR
MEAN WHEN I WAS SLEEPING I WAS
ON HIGH ALERT THAT I WOULD
SWING.
>> I WAS WAKING HIM UP AND HE
WANTED TO PUT A MOVE ON ME TO
PROTECT HIMSELF.
AND WHEN HE HAD DREAMS, WE
WATCHED HIM VERY CLOSELY I
THINK.
>> HE HAD QUITE A FEW EPISODES.
>> WHERE LIKE HE SAVED THE
FAMILY FROM ATTACK.
>> HE HELD A SERIES OF ODD JOBS
AFTER LEAVING THE ARMY.
SEVEN YEARS PASSED BEFORE HE
DECIDED TO GET A FRESH START AT
CITY COLLEGE OF SAN FRANCISCO.
BUT ONE DAY IN ENGLISH CLASS,
THE WAR CAME FLOODING BACK.
>> SOME THINGS WERE BROUGHT UP
IN PARTICULAR OF A LITTLE BOY
WHO I KNEW, AN IRAQI CHILD THAT
HAD DIED.
AND I COULDN'T SIT IN CLASS
ANYMORE, I HAD TO LEAVE. WITH
DIFFERENT MEMORIES COMING BACK,
I JUST COULDN'T GO ON.
>> HE DIDN'T HAVE TO GO FAR FOR
HELP.
WITHIN MINUTES, HE WAS TALKING
WITH A THERAPIST AT THE
ON-CAMPUS CLINIC RUN BY THE
DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS' AFFAIRS.
>> I WENT IN, SPOKE TO ONE OF
THEIR COUNSELORS AND HE JUST
LISTENED, HAD ME TALK IT OUT,
CALMED ME DOWN.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT I WOULD HAVE
DONE WITHOUT HIM.
I MEAN, I WAS KIND OF IN PANIC
MODE.
>> WHEN IT OPENED IN 2010, THE
CLINIC AT CITY COLLEGE MARKED
THE FIRST TIME THAT THE NATIONAL
AGENCY CHARGE WAS HELPING
VETERANS HAD EVER OFFERED
HEALTHCARE ON A COLLEGE CAMPUS.
A SIMPLE SOLUTION BUT ONE THAT
CAN BE LIFE SAVING.
>> WE WANT TO MAKE IT AS EASY AS
POSSIBLE FOR VETERANS TO RECEIVE
SERVICES.
>> CHIEF ARMSTRONG RUNS THE VA
CLINIC AT CITY COLLEGE.
>> WHAT WE KNOW ABOUT VETERANS
ESPECIALLY VETERANS COMING HOME
FROM WAR AND THEY HAVE SYMPTOMS
CONSISTENT WITH POST TRAUMATIC
STRESS.
>> SOMEONE CAME UP TO ME AND
SAID WERE YOU IN THE MILITARY.
YEAH.
HOW MANY PEOPLE DID YOU KILL
OVER THERE.
COME ON.
>> HOW DID YOU HANDLE IT.
>> VERY POLITELY I SAID NO ONE
TODAY.
>> SENIOR VA OFFICIALS HAVE
PRAISED THE CLINIC OF CITY
COLLEGE.
SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS
ERIC HAS TOURED THE COUNTRY
URGING COLLEGES TO DO MORE TO
HELP VETERANS.
>> THEY MUST GRADUATE, OTHERWISE
THERE'S NO PAY OFF TO THEM, TO
ANY OF YOUR INSTITUTIONS OR TO
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE WHO HAVE
UNDERWRITTEN THIS MOST GENEROUS
OF EDUCATION PROGRAMS.
>> BUT THE VA HAS BEEN SLOW TO
BUILD ON THE DISCUSS OF ITS CITY
COLLEGE CLINIC.
IN MAY THE NON-PARTISAN
GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE
ISSUED A REPORT SAYING THE TO
BACK UP ITS $10 BILLION
INVESTMENT IN VETERANS'
EDUCATION.
THE REPORT SAID THAT COLLEGES
WERE WORKING WITHOUT ANY
GUIDANCE OR ASSISTANCE FROM THE
VA.
AND THE SENATOR FOR
INVESTIGATIVE REPORTING FOUND
THAT AT 150 COLLEGES THAT THE
LARGEST NUMBERS OF IRAQ AND
AFGHANISTAN VETERAN STUDENTS,
THE VA PROVIDES SERVICES AT JUST
FOUR.
>> IT'S NOT AN EXPENSIVE
PROGRAM.
INITIALLY IT'S A CHALLENGING
PROGRAM TO GET SET UP BECAUSE IT
INVOLVES THE VA DOING SOMETHING
WITH ANOTHER BUREAUCRACY.
>> THREE YEARS ON, THE PROGRAM
REMAINS IN THE PILOT STIJ, WITH
NO PLAN FOR A MAJOR NATIONAL
ROLLOUT.
A VA SPOKESMAN FOLD US THE
AGENCY IS STILL GATHERING DATA
ON BEST PRACTICES.
HERE AT CITY COLLEGE, IT WAS THE
FOOTBALL COACH, GEORGE RUSH WHO
SAW A NEED.
>> FOR THIS CAMPUS THE
COMMITMENT WAS THESE PEOPLE HAVE
MADE THE GREATEST SACRIFICES,
AND AS SUCH DESERVE THE MOST
ATTENTION.
AND THEY'RE GOING TO GET IT
HERE.
>> COACH RUSH COMES FROM A
MILITARY FAMILY.
HE AND OTHER LEADERS SOUGHT HELP
FROM TRADE UNIONS.
>> IT WAS VERY UNINVITING.
YOU HAD TO STAND IN THE HALLWAY,
IT WAS ONE PERSON COMING OFF AT
THE TIME THERE WAS NO CHAIRS.
IT WAS VERY VERY UPSETTING IF I
WAS A VETERAN COMING BACK AND
THINKING MY LIFE AND THE THING I
HAD GONE THROUGH AND I WAS
STANDING LIKE A KINDERGARTNER
WAITING IN LINE.
>> THEY MADE COLLEGE A
DESTINATION FOR YOUNGER VETERANS
ACROSS THE REGION.
IRAQ WAR VETERAN ANDRE ROGERS IS
PRESIDENT OF THE
ALLIANCE.
>> I'M HANGING OUT.
I'M NOT SURE EVERYBODY'S SAFE,
COMFORTABLE AND THEY'RE GETTING
YOU KNOW WHAT THEY NEED.
>> EVERY WEEK DAY, ROGERS
DRIVERS PAST SIX OTHER COMMUNITY
COLLEGES ON HIS WAY TO SAN
FRANCISCO.
CITY COLLEGE MAY BE FIGHTING FOR
HITS ACCREDITATION BUT IT IS THE
ONLY SCHOOL WHERE HE CAN
COUNSELING FOR THE FLASHBACKS
THAT STILL OCCASION ME PLAGUE
HIM DURING CLASS.
>> WHETHER IT'S MEDICAL BENEFITS
OR DISABILITY COMPENSATION,
CLASSES.
ANY PROBLEMS THAT THEY V THEY
CAN COME TO ME OR I JUST WALK
AROUND AND ASK THEM HOW ARE YOU
DOING, IS THERE ANYTHING YOU
NEED.
>> ARE MARINE CORPS VETERAN ED
WIN WAS STUDYING TO BE A
MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
EARLIER THIS SPRING HE WAS
STRUGGLING.
HE STOPPED GOING TO CLASS.
>> YOU CALLED THE SUICIDE
HOTLINE SO WERE YOU THINKING
ABOUT IT AT THAT POINT.
>> YES, I WAS.
>> WHAT WERE YOU THINKING ABOUT
DOING?
>> CUTTING MY WRISTS.
>> IN AFGHANISTAN, DELL RIO CAME
UPON A FAMILY, INCLUDING TWO
SMALL CHILDREN THAT HAD BEEN
SHOT BY THE TALIBAN.
HERE AT THE VETERANS' LOUNGE
HE'S BEEN ABLE TO TALK WITH
OTHERS ABOUT HIS EXPERIENCE AND
LEARN THAT HE IS NOT ALONE.
>> WE WERE IN THE SAME TENTS AND
SAME CAMP, WENT ON THE SAME
PATROL AND SAME HARDSHIPS.
SO WE KNEW THE PROBLEMS EACH OF
US MIGHT FACE, AND WE'RE FAMILY.
>> BEFORE HE ENROLLED AT CITY
COLLEGE, DANIEL WAS SEARCHING
FOR A SENSE OF BELONGING.
HE JOINED THE RESERVES.
HE SAYS THE COMMUNITY AND
SERVICES AT CITY COLLEGE HAVE
HELPED HIM TURN THE PAGE TO THE
NEXT PHASE OF HIS LIFE.
>> I STARTED GOING TO SCHOOL
HERE AND IT JUST TOOK ON A WHOLE
DIFFERENT PERSONA.
I STARTED GETTING GOOD GRADES, I
STARTED THINKING MAYBE I COULD
GO TO A REALLY GOOD UNIVERSITY.
>> HE HOPES TO TRANSFER TO UC
BERKLEY AND HE WANTS MORE
VETERANS TO GET THE KIND OF HELP
HE'S HAD.
>> EVERY INSTITUTION, I DON'T
CARE IF YOU GOT 1300 VETS LIKE
WE DO OR 30 VETS, EVERY PLACE
SHOULD HAVE SOMETHING LIKE THIS
TO TURN TO.
BECAUSE WHO KNOWS ONE OF THESE
VETERANS, THEY MIGHT HAVE IT
WORSE THAN HOW I HAD IT IN
CLASS.
MAYBE THEY WON'T GET THE HELP
THEY NEED IN TIME.
>> Wooduff: THAT STORY WAS PART
OF A LONGER DOCUMENTARY THAT
AIRED LAST SUMMER.
FOR MORE ON K.Q.E.D. AND THE
CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING'S COVERAGE OF THIS
ISSUE, GO TO
kqed.org/lifeafterwar.
>> Ifill: THE MANN BOOKER PRIZE
IS BRITAIN'S MOST PRESTIGIOUS
AWARD FOR NOVELISTS FROM
BRITAIN, IRELAND OR COMMONWEALTH
COUNTRIES.
JEFFREY BROWN SAT DOWN RECENTLY
WITH THIS YEAR'S ACCLAIMED
WINNER.
>> Brown:  IN 1866, A YOUNG
MAN ARRIVES FROM ENGLAND TO JOIN
THE GOLD RUSH UNDER WAY IN NEW
ZEALAND.
IN A HOTEL LOUNGE HE COMES UPON
12 MEN DISCUSSING A CRIME.
ONE REVIEWER CALLED IT A MASS
CONFABULATION, FRONTIER JUSTICE,
VICTORIAN AND VERY MODERN
STORYTELLING AND MUCH MORE.
AWE THIS ELEANOR CATTEN IS FROM
NEW ZEALANDING AND AT AGE 28IAN
ES RIGHT TO WIN THE BROOK PRIZE.
CONGRATULATIONS TO YOU WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> IT'S FASCINATING TO READ THIS
AND TO READ THE REVIEWERS TRYING
TO FIGURE OUT AND EXPLAIN TO
THEIR READERS WHAT IT IS.
SO LET ME ASK THE AUTHOR.
WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU HAVE DONE
HERE OR CREATED HERE.
>> I THINK IT IS A NOVELWAE TWOE
BRAIN HAS TWO HEMISPHERES.
IT'S THE KIND OF THE 19TH
CENTURY TYPE WITH BLACKMAIL AND
THAT KIND OF THING.
AND THE OTHER HEMISPHERE IS
MAYBE THE SLIGHTLY MORE HEADY
HEMISPHERE OF THE BOOK IS KIND
OF AN ASTROLOGICAL DANCE THAT'S
GOING ON WHERE AS YOU DISCOVERED
EACH OF THE CHARACTERS IS
TYPICAL OF ONE OF THE SIGNS AND
THE EMOTION THAT REFLECTS WHAT
IS HAPPENING AT THAT TIME.
>> THE ASTROLOGY EVEN DETERMINES
THE LENGTH OF CHAPTERS, RIGHT,
AND THE WAY THE STORY UNFOLDS.
IS IT YOU WERE INTERESTED IN
ASTROLOGY OR WERE YOU INTERESTED
IN A STRUCTURE TO WHICH YOU
COULD PUT THIS SORT OF OLD
FASHION AS YOU SAY CRIME STORY.
>> IN MY RESEARCH FOR THE BOOK I
DISCOVERED TO MY INTEREST AND
ASTONISHMENT THAT ASTROLOGY
REALLY IS AN INCREDIBLY
MATHEMATICAL SYSTEM AND ONE THAT
HAS THINK IN COMMON WITH MUSIC.
IN MUSIC WE HAVE THE 12 NOTES
AND THE SCALE AND AS DESCRAWLG
YOU'VE GOT THE 12 SIGNS AND THE
PLANETS.
ALL KINDS OF INTERRELATIONS THAT
HAVE AND  THE HARMONIES THAT
HAPPEN IN THE SKY IS THE SAME AS
THE HARMONIES OR THE CHORDS.
>> YOU HAD THIS IDEA I'LL TAKE A
STORY AND SORT OF USE ASTROLOGY
TO KIND OF HELP ME TELL IT.
>> YES.
I FELT YOU KNOW, I BEGAN BY
PLAYING AROUND I THINK AND
FEELING MY WAY INTO THE SYSTEM
AND SEEING WHAT INTERESTED ME.
>> SO THE RESULTS AT THE AWARDS
CEREMONY THE BOOK YOU JOKINGLY
CALLED YOUR BOOK A PUBLISHER'S
NIGHTMARE.
WHAT DID YOU MEAN BY THAT
BECAUSE IT'S A GOOD READ BUT
IT'S A BIG READ.
>> YES.
WELL I MEAN I BROKE LOTS OF
RULES IN THIS BOOK.
I WAS TWO YEARS BEHIND MY
SCHEDULE AND MY PUBLISHER'S
CONTRACT.
THEY HAD CERTIFIED A WORK OF A
CERTAIN LENGTH THAT I WAS TO
DELIVER AND THIS BOOK'S ABOUT
THREE TIMES THAT WORD COUNT.
I MEAN, IT WAS A WONDERFUL THING
ACTUALLY BECAUSE YOU KNOW,
THERE'S SOME RISKS THAT
PUBLISHERS HAVE TO TAKE THAT
WRITERS NEVER REALLY SEE, THE
FINANCIAL RISKS AND ALL THE
RISKS OF LABOR AND EFFECT AND
THAT KIND OF THING.
I FELT MASSIVELY TRUSTED AND ALL
THE SCHAIRKZ IN THE WORLD.
>> IN THE END WASN'T THE FUN TO
WRITE.
AGAIN GOING BACK THERE'S A LOT
OF PUZZLE ASPECTS TO IT.
THERE ARE MANY CHARACTERS AND
ONE THINKING LEADS TO ANOTHER
STORY AND THERE'S THE ASTROLOGY.
WAS IT FUN TO PUT ALL THAT
ALTOGETHER.
>> IT WAS ENORMOUS FUN.
I THINK IT HAS TO DO.
IF YOU'RE NOT HAVING FUN YOU
CAN'T HOPE THAT THE READER'S
GOING TO HAVE FUN.
>> AM I RIGHT IN THINKING THAT
PARTLY YOU'RE LOOKING BACK TO
VICTORIA NOVELS, ONE CAN SENSE
DICKENS HERE, BUT OF COURSE IT'S
A MODERN CONTEMPORARY TALE.
AM I WRITE IN THINKING THAT
YOU'RE INTERESTED IN SORT OF
WHAT THE NOVEL CAN DO IN ALL OF
THIS.
>> VERY MUCH SO, YES.
AN INTERESTING THING ABOUT NEW
ZEALAND, YOU KNOW, LITERATURE IS
THAT IT REALLY DIDN'T BEGIN IN
ANY REAL SENSE UNTIL THE 20TH
CENTURY.
SO WE HAVE A TRADITION OF NEW
ZEALAND IN 19TH CENTURY NOVELS
OF GEORGE EL YET OR PEOPLE OF
THAT KIND.
TRYING TO WRITE NEW ZEALAND IN A
TRADITION THAT'S NOT INCLUDED IN
A NEW ZEALAND VOICE.
>> AND BEING FROM NEW ZEALAND,
DOES THAT BRING SOMETHING TO
THIS THAT WE'RE NOT AWARE OF?
>> YES, I THINK SO.
I THINK IT'S A DIFFERENT PROJECT
FOR A NOVELIST FROM A SMALL
COUNTRY BECAUSE YOU CAN'T RELY
ON ANYBODY KNOWING ANY OF THE
THINGS YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
ALREADY.
AND SO YOU HAVE TO BOTH CREATE
THE IMPRESSION IN THE READER'S
MIND AND ALSO KIND OF EXPLORE
IT.
A LOT BIT DIFFERENT THAN YOU
KNOW IF YOU'RE RUSHING ABOUT A
PLACE OR A PAPER OR AN INCIDENT
THAT IS ALREADY A FIXTURE IN
KIND OF  THE IMAGINATION OF THE
WORLD.
>> IT'S THE LONGEST BOOK EVER
FOR THE PRIZE AND YOU'RE THE
YOUNGEST AUTHOR.
THAT GOT A LOT OF ATTENTION.
DID IT MEAN ANYTHING TO YOU, THE
AGE PART.
>> WELL I MEAN, I'M VERY, I FEEL
IT'S A GREAT HONOR, YOU KNOW,
VERY PLEASED THAT IT WORKED OUT
THE WAY IT HAS.
BUT THE FUNNY THING IS IN MY
MIND WHENEVER I HEAR YOUNGEST
GIRL LONGEST BOOK.
I KEPT SWITCHING THE ADJECTIVE
ARE HEARING OLDEST AUTHOR
YOUNGEST BOOK.
>> WHAT'S NEXT FOR YOU.
>> BACK TO  NEW SEALAND.
I'M TEACHING DOWN THERE AND
HOPEFULLY KEEP MY HEAD OVER MY
SHOULDERS.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH.
CONGRATULATIONS.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN SEE ELEANOR
CATTON READ FROM "THE
LUMINARIES" ONLINE, ON OUR ART
BEAT PAGE.
>> Wooduff: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
WOMEN VETERANS OF WORLD WAR II.
THEY LOGGED MORE THAN 60 MILLION
MILES IN EVERY TYPE OF MILITARY
AIRCRAFT, BUT AFTER THE WAR,
THE WOMEN AIR FORCE SERVICE
PILOTS, OR WASPS, WERE DISBANDED
AND THEIR CONTRIBUTIONS LARGELY
FORGOTTEN, UNTIL 2009 WHEN THEY
RECEIVED THE CONGRESSIONAL GOLD
MEDAL.
A NEW DOCUMENTARY, "WE SERVED
TOO," TELLS THE STORY OF THESE
HEROIC WOMEN.
IT BEGINS AIRING ON SELECT PBS
STATIONS TONIGHT.
HERE IS AN EXCERPT.
>> THIS IS THE FACTORY AND
PICKED UP THE BRAND NEW AIRPLANE
AS THEY CAME OFF THE LINE AND
WHERE THEY WERE GOING TO GO TO A
SCHOOL OR POINT OF EMBARKATION
OR SOME PLACE WHERE THAT
AIRPLANE WAS TO GO.
AND THEN WE WOULD ANGLE BACK AND
PICK UP ANOTHER ONE.
IT WAS A JOB THAT HAD TO BE
DONE.
UNFORTUNATELY WE WERE ALLOWED TO
DO IT.
IT WAS A GREAT PRIVILEGE
ACTUALLY.
>> THE WASPS WERE OFTEN THE
FIRST PILOTS TO SIT IN THE
COCKPIT AND FLY THE MILITARY'S
NEWEST AND MOST ADVANCED AND
FASTEST AIRPLANES.
IN MOST CASES THEY HAD NO
TRAINING HOW TO FLY THE
AIRCRAFT.
>> THEY OFTEN WOULDN'T BE
TRAINED IN THIS PARTICULAR
PLANE, RIGHT.
MOST OF THESE AIRCRAFT WERE
SINGLE COCKPIT PLANES.
SO YOUR FIRST FLIGHT WOULD BE
YOUR FIRST FLIGHT IN THAT
AIRPLANE.
AND SO THEY WOULD ARRIVE AND BE
GIVEN THE ORDERS WITH THE
NUMBERS, RIGHT.
YOU TAKE OFF AT THE SPEED, YOU
PUT THE FLAPS DOWN AT THIS SPEED
YOU LAND AT THIS SPEED.
AND YOU HAVE TO MEMORIZE THOSE
AND THEN JUST GO.
AND THEY WOULD OFTEN TAKE OFF
AND THEN THEY WOULD PRACTICE.
ONE TELLS THE STORY SHE WOULD
SHOOT LANDINGS ON CLOUDS.
SHE WOULD FIND A CLOUD AND SHE
WOULD PRACTICE HER LANDING
SPEEDS AND HER APPROACH ON
CLOUDS UNTIL SHE BECAME
COMFORTABLE WITH THE AIRCRAFT
AND THEN SHE WOULD WOULD GO AND
DO HER BUSINESS AND LAND
WHEREVER SHE IS SUPPOSED TO
LAND.
>> YOU GO IN AND CHECK YOURSELF
OUT, THE DASHBOARD AND FIGURE
OUT WHERE THE INSTRUMENTS EAR.
YOU KNOW WHERE THE THROTTLE IS
AND THE MISSION CONTROL.
SOMEBODY ON THE GROUND SAYS GOOD
LUCK, YOU'RE ON YOUR OWN.
>> THE WOMEN ALSO FLEW ACROSS
THE COUNTRY WITH LIMITED
NAVIGATION.
>> WE DIDN'T HAVE GPS OR
ANYTHING LIKE THAT BUT WE HAD A
CAMPUS.
WELL, WE HAD A MAP AND WE FLEW
WHAT IS CALLED IFR WHICH IS I
FOLLOWED A RAILROAD.
IF YOU EVER GOT LOST YOU
FOLLOWED A RAILROAD AND IT GOT
YOU SOME PLACE.
>> Ifill: "WE SERVED TOO, THE
STORY OF THE WOMEN AIR FORCE
SERVICE PILOTS OF WORLD WAR
TWO," AIRS TONIGHT AND OVER THE
COURSE OF THIS WEEK ON PBS
STATIONS AROUND THE COUNTRY.
CHECK YOUR LOCAL LISTINGS FOR
THE EXACT TIME.
>> Wooduff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
SURVIVORS OF A DEVASTATING
TYPHOON IN THE PHILIPPINES GREW
INCREASINGLY DESPERATE OR AID
AND IRAN REACHED AGREEMENT WITH
THE U.N.'S CHIEF: TO ALLOW
EXPANDED INSPECTIONS OF ITS
NUCLEAR SITES.
>> Ifill: ON THE "NEWSHOUR"
ONLINE RIGHT NOW: VISITORS
TRAVEL FROM AROUND THE WORLD TO
THE VIETNAM WAR MEMORIAL AND
THEY LEAVE BEHIND REMEMBRANCES
TO THEIR LOST LOVED ONES.
ON THIS VETERANS DAY, WE VISITED
THE NATIONAL PARKS RESOURCE
CENTER, WHERE CURATORS GATHER
AND CATALOGUE THE PERSONAL
ITEMS: LETTERS, PHOTOS, STUFFED
ANIMALS, EVEN A MOTORCYCLE.
YOU CAN READ SOME OF THEIR
STORIES AND LEARN ABOUT WHAT
HAPPENS TO IT ALL ON OUR
HOMEPAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
>> Wooduff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL SIT DOWN WITH
FORMER VICE PRESIDENT DICK
CHENEY TO DISCUSS HIS NEW BOOK:
"HEART: AN AMERICAN MEDICAL
ODYSSEY."
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL
THANK YOU AND GOODNIGHT